---
layout: post
title:  "Meet Eero"
date:   2015-09-06
categories: session-summary eero all pov
---


*Sketch bond: Working on converting Sketch to my faith*

*Throndir bond: Throndir is a good person and I trust them implicitly*

Eero doesn't spend too much time thinking about how people perceive him; if pressed, he describes himself as "a bald guy in monk robes", but he is well-known to have some anger issues. He has traveled a long way from the bustling city of Cumorah to Steading Shadeguard, which sits on the edge of the Black Forest. On Eero's 10th birthday, his parents were taking him to Cumorah to see some kind of event - he has long since forgotten what - but they were waylaid by bandits on the road. His parents were mortally wounded, and Eero himself barely survived, while the highwaymen made off with everything Eero's family owned. He has a vague memory that one of the thieves called the other one by name - "Ladriel", he thinks? - and that "Ladriel" got angry enough with his cohort that he immediately put an arrow in the other thief's throat, leaving him to bleed out right on top of to Eero's father.

A Cleric of Odin, Eero belongs to the Order of Yldir, who focus on representing Odin's will in battle. The head of the Order of Yldir is Joshua, the High Cleric of Odin, and head Cleric of the Temple of Odin in Cumorah. One of the things that really gets Eero's ire up is when he is confronted with worshipers of Cornforth, the god who is most directly in opposition to the teachings of Odin. Particularly their belief that one is "saved by grace" really irritates Eero.

Eero recently had a heated argument with Elder Teenan over mercy killings; Eero believes these to be consistent with the teachings of Odin, but Elder Teenan - who holds the Freygrasp High Seat of Ethical Pronoucements in the Temple of Odin located in Cumorah - was adamant that this was an unrighteous practice. Eero's behaviour in pressing his point in this argument caused Elder Teenan to send Eero on a "local parish inspection" to Steading Shadeguard. On the surface, it's a legitimate task, as there have been an increasing number of complaints from believers of Odin about the strange sermons offered by the local priest, Father Alma Garber; but no one had any illusions - Eero was selected because of the argument.

Upon his arrival in Shadeguard, Eero immediately sought out an old companion, Sketch the halfling…procurer of…goods which may or may not be illicit. He had heard Sketch was in the area, and hadn't seen him in years; he remembered clearly the day Sketch arrived on the steps of the Temple, nearly dead from the poison that had been slipped to him. As Sketch stayed in the Temple healing from his ailment, Eero would visit him daily, sharing his closely held beliefs about the power of Odin's benevolence. Eero was anxious to find Sketch and share his latest thoughts on the matter, but after making a few inquires at the Starfall Inn (the only inn Shadeguard has,) he was brought up short by Sheriff Brightedge, who informed Eero that Sketch was doing a week's stretch in prison for trying to cheat in a card game against a wealthy and popular local merchant, one Bilbo Beresnedy.

Dismayed that his friend still had not appeared to turn towards Odin's light, Eero began doing research in the city records - he was looking for traces of an old teacher from his days in the monastery named Thurban Bearclaw, for Eero himself was beginning to have a small crisis of faith.

In a recent battle against a marauding band of goblins, Eero saw Beneger - one the Elders of his Order throw down his weapons and attempt to flee upon realizing their position was overrun and they were all likely to die. Beneger was stabbed in the back by a Goblin spear, and Eero turned away from the shame of it. However, upon their rescue, Eero was greatly dismayed to watch Reimund - one of the other Elders of the Order, who also witnessed Beneger's shame - perform the proper cleansing and blessing rituals to grant Beneger safe passage into Valhalla.

Angry and ashamed to see the Elders behave so, Eero has sought to council with his favorite instructor from his youth - the former holder of the Freygrasp High Seat of Ethical Pronoucements - Thurban Bearclaw. For it is a much-whispered secret that Thurban left the order over similar concerns about the application of burial rights to undeserving individuals, and Eero would like to seek further guidance from this man he respects so deeply. Since he was being more or less banished to Steading Shadeguard, and since Shadeguard is the place Thurban was last known to be heading to, it seemed perfectly serendipitous to look for traces of Thurban while he was here. So far, he has not been successful in finding much trace of Thurban's passage through the area.

Of course, as any good zealot does when facing a crisis of faith, Eero has "doubled down" on his belief system, and finds himself compelled to almost actively seek out people who are looking for a religious argument - he certainly cannot walk away from one once it has started - and only resolving his internal conflict will ease this compulsion. However, he does find that he can somewhat relax this compulsion when spending time with his good friend Throndir, the elven ranger who patrols the nearby Black Forest as part of the staff of the Arkosians, the family whose Duchy consists largely of the Black Forest, from the borders of Steading Shadeguard all the way to the River Xyhn and the city of Cumorah itself, some 300 leagues distant. Eero deeply trusts Throndir, and has confided in him the details of his personal struggles, and his subsequent search for Thurban.