---
layout: post
title:  "Meet Sketch"
date:   2015-09-06
categories: session-summary sketch all pov
---
*Eero bond: Eero has my back when things go wrong.*

*Throndir bond: I implicitly trust all elves because they “live by a code”*

On first glance, most people take Sketch for a common roustabout, but that is a grave error.

As a young halfling growing up in the tiny village of Rosemount, Sketch was tortured on a daily basis by his bitter, druken father, Gringamor. A mildly successful merchant in his youth, Gringamor was attacked by highwaymen and tried to bribe his way out of the situation. Mocking his audacity, the highwaymen broke both of his legs in multiple locations, leaving him largely crippled, before making off with his entire caravan of goods; perhap Gringamor would have been able to survive this loss, but hidden in the bottom of his saddlebags had been the means of Gringamor's most desperate gamble - he had dumped his entire fortune into procuring writs for several tons of that most prized stone, Pairolairoian green granite.

Anxious to recover his losses, and now unable to travel long distances due to his handicap, Gringamor took on a business partner, Ricfried Fairfoot. Unfortunately for Gringamor - and Sketch - Ric Fairfoot was either criminally incompetent, or just plain criminal, for every caravan he touched managed to find the most astounding losses in the marketplace, even when the goods where in high demand. Finally, the debtors caught up to Gringamor, and he discovered that Ric - now, nowhere to be found - had been amassing an incredible amount of debt in the name of their partnership.

And so, Gringamor was forced to work the most menial jobs to pay off his many debts. Worse still, he could never get rid of the "merchant bug," and he constantly gambled his small earnings on scheme after disastrous scheme intended to get him rich. All of this failure and frustration bubbled over into an ongoing campaign of physical abuse against his son, Sketch. One of Gringamor's favorite "punishments" - applied for everything from a broken dish to forgetting to comb his hair before leaving the house in the morning - was to hold Sketch's head under the water of the horse trough. This has given Sketch a deep and abiding fear of water, one he tries desperately to hide from others, as he sees it as both a sign of weakness, and his father continuing to control him.

For, at the age of 23 (still late adolesence for a halfling) Sketch fled from his home. He took with him only a single item - an item his father would clutch and caress at nights, when he didn't think Sketch was awake. Sketch never understood why his father seemed to love a torn corner from a sheet of paper more than his own son, but when he made off with the scrap, he noted an interesting detail - it was embossed with a very mysterious symbol - a sword suspended between two laurel leaves.

Fleeing in the night, Sketch made for the distant city of Cumorah. There, he did his best to live on the city streets, going hungry and cold most nights, until the fateful night he decided to steal someone's coin purse to get some money for a meal, a hot bath, and a bed. Unfortunately - or, come to think of it, perhaps the greatest fortune of his brief and miserable life - the target Sketch chose for his first pickpocket job was none of than Oli Dammara, an incredibly skilled elven thief and mid-tier member of the Cumorah Thieves Guild. Impressed by the courage, and seeing a lot of raw talent that could be trained, Oli took the young halfling under his wing and taught him the art of thievery.

For years, Sketch studied under the accomplished thief, and occasionally ran his own, independent side-con during a larger Guild operation. Sketch also became a bit of a womanizer, and it was this that both nearly took his life, and finally brought into his life a connection to something outside the Guild. To this day Sketch remains unsure who it was that poisoned his drink, but he suspects it was one of the women he had dallied with.

Near death, Sketch stumbled through the streets and arrived atthe Temple of Odin. A young monk named Eero was up holding a vigil that night, and was the first to see Sketch's distress. His quick action saved the halfling's life.

During his period of invalidity, Eero noticed that no one ever came to check on Sketch, and he took pity on him. He began to visit Sketch in the infirmary, and found he genuinely liked him. Once he get well, they continued to grow the friendship. They would often walk the streets late at night - Eero travelling unmolested due to Sketch's protection - and debate ethics, logic, and the mysteries of the universe. Sketch knew that Eero was just trying to gain a convert, but he genuinely enjoyed the looks of consternation on Eero's face as he produced logical and ethical puzzles that made the burley priest re-evaluate his own pre-convieved notions.

On one especially large heist, when the Guild hit the Cumorah Money Changers, Sketch was assigned to create a diversion in the street a block or so away from the main action. The compassion and mentorship Oli had shown Sketch had given him a deep respect for elves - while he would never admit it out loud, he believes that all elves are naturally worthy of trust and live by a code of honor - so it was with an acute sense of irony that Sketch eyed the target selected by his superior for the distraction - an elven Ranger, clearly lost in the big city.

As planned, Sketch's superior stole the Ranger's coin purse in a most ostentation fashion, and Sketch made a large to-do about stopping the thief and returning the Ranger's coin purse to him. While the other thief made his escape, Sketch got to know the elven Ranger, Throndir, and introduced Throndir to his friend Eero.

For years the three friends - Sketch, Eero, and Throndir - would regularly meet at a small inn on the road between Cumorah and the Black Forest, where Throndir was a game warden for the Arkosians, a powerful noble family in the city of Cumorah. Sketch would listen to Throndir talk about the Arkosians, and their lack of respect for their own lands, and would occasionally - and very surreptitiously - ask for details about the Arkosians. For, in his time in the city, Sketch had come to harbor a burning rage for the Arkosians, because he had discovered that they were the principle holders of his father's debt. Sketch knew it was childish to direct all of the anger and pain of his upbringing at the Arkosians, but he couldn't help himself; in the back of his mind, where he dared not even admit it to himself, Sketch believed that if he could avenge his father on the Arkosians, his father would finally love him.

So, after years of very slowly accumulating knowledge about the Arkosian family, Sketch finally managed to embed himself in the household as a servant. After months of careful and deliberate service, Sketch fled one night with many of the Arkosian's most prized jewels. To his dismay, before he could find a fence willing to deal in the stolen items, he was confronted by the Arkosian Housecarl, Jurgen, in the slums of Cumorah. Jurgen demanded 50% of the stolen goods, or he would immediately turn Sketch over to the authorities. Dismayed, Sketch produced half of his treasure, upon which Jurgen introduced Sketch to a fence who was prepared to help him unload the stolen gems - at a steep price of one half of their nominal value. Sketch took what he could get, and returned to his home town of Rosemount, hoping to get the acceptance he had always craved from his father by buying whatever remained of his debt.

Sketch would never get the chance to find out if this would have been enough to earn his father's approval, for he arrived in Rosemount to discover his father had passed away a few months before. Spirit broken, Sketch couldn't even find it in himself to resist as the town demanded repayment of his father's funerary expenses - he just dropped the sum remaining total of the Arkosian job on the mayor's desk and left again for Cumorah.

Returning to the Guild, Sketch was dismayed to discover that - while covering the escape for some other members of the Guild - Oli had been forced to cross blades with the Cumorah City Watch and had been slain.

Lost, confused, and utterly heartbroken, Sketch blamed himself for Oli's death. He believed that - had it not been for the distraction of avenging the father who had never shown him a sign of love anyway - Sketch would have been there and helped Oli escape intact. It was at this moment that Sketch decided it was time to leave Cumorah

Thinking he would go see Throndir for a while, Sketch set out for the Black Forest, and stopped in Steading Shadeguard. Taking rooms at the Emerald Carnival Inn there, Sketch decided to join a game of cards which included a local merchant, Bilbo Riverhopper. After winning all of Bilbo's money in a particularly flourishing style, Sketch was accused of being a cheat. While neither party had any concrete evidence, Bilbo was well-known to the local constable, Sheriff Brightedge, having supported many of his motions to the city council.

And thus it was that Sketch found himself in the Steading Shadeguard jail, serving a week's sentence for cheating at cards and resisting arrest. It was during this time in the jail that Sketch met Officer Eduard Pairolairo. The man was incredibly non-descript, and Sketch would probably have never thought twice about him, had it not been for a distinctive ring he wore on his left hand: a sword suspended between two laurel leaves.

A well-behaved prisoner, Sketch was generally liked by the guards, and he would strike up conversations with Officer Pairolairo. It was during one of these conversations that Sketch asked the guard about his distinctive ring. Eduard laughed at Sketch's ignorance, and described how it was the symbol of his Uncle's wealth, for the Pairolairo family estates with the world's only known source of the precious "green granite," sought throught the known world for the most exquisite works of stone, and often desired for use in high-end magical constructs.

Sketch thought back to the torn scrap of paper his father would clutch at night as he wept bitter tears into his cup of wine, and wondered at the connection. Before he could discover much more, his sentence was up, and he was paroled by the magistrate to spend 3 days patrolling the borders of Steading Shadeguard with Deputy Hobbes. It was on these rounds that Sketch and Hobbes ran into Throndir and Eero. Their meeting was joyous. Brief greetings were exchanged, and all three were glad to renew a friendship which had languished for some time. Eero and Throndir were unaware of Sketch's activities of the past year - infiltrating the Arkosian household, returning to Rosemount to find his father had passed, and the loss of his mentor - but Sketch kept these to himself. He told himself at the time it was becuse of the presence of Deputy Hobbes, but he wasn't entirely sure he believed this.

After their greetings, Throndir told the story of a horrific and grisly scene of slaughtered and poached animals, and produced the sole piece of evidence at the scene: a ring that matched exactly the one that Officer Pairolairo had worn. Deputy Hobbes took the ring, promising to deliver it to the Sheriff, and released Sketch from the remainder of his service, so that he could return at once to Steading Shadeguard.